# Template #
- Templates allow using types(built-in and non built-in) as parameters. The type must support the operations that the template actually uses.
```cpp
template <typename T>
auto display(const T& a) {
 std::cout << a << std::endl;
}
```
-After its introduction, T is used exactly like other type names. The scope of T extends to the end of the declaration prefixed by template<typename T>. In abpve example, T is valid only for display the function. Outside display, T does not exist.
- Duck typing : If it looks like a duck and quacks like a duck, the template will accept it. In the below example, T and U only need to support the + operator. They don’t need to inherit from each other, or from a common parent.

```CPP
template <typename T, typename U>
auto add(const T& a, const U& b) {
    return a + b;
}
```

- C++ templates allow you to parameterize your code — meaning you can write a class, function, or type alias where some part of it is left unspecified, and can be filled in later with:
   - A type (e.g., int, std::string, or a user-defined class), or
   - A value (e.g., an integer constant, a pointer, a reference, a boolean), depending on the template kind.

**Type parameters**

```cpp
template <typename T> // Here, T is a type parameter.
class Vector {
    T* data;
};
Vector<int> v1;
```

**Value (non-type) parameters**

```cpp
template <int N>
struct Array {
    int data[N];
};
Array<4> a;
```

- When you write a template like:
```cpp
template <typename T>
T add(T a, T b) {
    return a + b;
}
```

There is no place in the code where you explicitly say:
- T must support the + operator
- T must be copyable
- T must be default-constructible

Instead, the compiler only checks these requirements when the template is instantiated, not when it is defined. If you pass a type that doesn’t support +, you get a long, cryptic template error. CPP20 solves this problem.

```cpp
//CPP20
template <std::integral T> // This forces T to be of type std::integral
T add(T a, T b) { return a + b; }
```

- Using a template can lead to a decrease of code generated because code for a member function of a class template is only generated if that member is used.
- Templates can also be defined as aliases.This is like creating a shortcut or rename for a template instantiation pattern. Shorter, cleaner, and hides the implementation.
  ```
cpp
template <typename Key, typename Value>
using Hash = std::unordered_map<Key, Value>;
Hash<std::string, int> frequency;
  ```
> **💡 TIP:** When designing a class template, it is usually a good idea to debug a particular class, such as ` String `, before turning it into a template such as ` String<C> `.

- Members of a class template are declared and defined exactly as they would have been for a non-template class. When a member is defined outside its class, it must explicitly be declared a template.
- It is not possible to overload a class template name, so if a class template is declared in a scope, no other entity can be declared there with the same name. 
```cpp
template<typename T>
class String { /* ... */ };
class String { /* ... */ }; // error : double definition
```

- Template specialization allows to write a different version of a template when certain types or values are used.
```CPP
template<typename T>
struct MyType {
    void print() { std::cout << "Generic\n"; }
};

// Specialization(A version of a template for a specific template argument list) for int
template<>
struct MyType<int> {
    void print() { std::cout << "Int version\n"; }
};

MyType<double>().print();  // Generic
MyType<int>().print();     // Int version

If the template argument is exactly int, use this special version instead of the generic one.
```

- Templates are type-safe. Type checking is done on the code generated by template instantiation (exactly as if the programmer had expanded the templates by hand).
```CPP
template<typename T>
class Box {
public:
    T value;
}; //This is not a class yet — it's a blueprint.

Box<int> b;     // instantiates Box<int> Type checking will be done
Box<double> d;  // instantiates Box<double>
```

